skills/summarize/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: summarize
description: "Fetch a URL or convert a local file (PDF/DOCX/HTML/etc.) into Markdown using `uvx markitdown`, optionally it can summarize"
---

Turn “things” (URLs, PDFs, Word docs, PowerPoints, HTML pages, text files, etc.) into **Markdown** so they can be inspected/quoted/processed like normal text.

`markitdown` can fetch URLs by itself; this skill mainly wraps it to make saving + summarizing convenient.

## When to use

Use this skill when you need to:
- pull down a web page as a document-like Markdown representation
- convert binary docs (PDF/DOCX/PPTX) into Markdown for analysis
- quickly produce a short summary of a long document before deeper work

## Quick usage

### Convert a URL or file to Markdown

Run from **this skill folder** (the agent should `cd` here first):

```bash
uvx markitdown <url-or-path>
```

To write Markdown to a temp file (prints the path) use the wrapper:

```bash
node to-markdown.mjs <url-or-path> --tmp
```

Tip: when summarizing, the script will also write a temp markdown file automatically (so you can open/inspect it).

Write Markdown to a specific file:

```bash
uvx markitdown <url-or-path> > /tmp/doc.md
```

### Convert + summarize with haiku-4-5 (pass context!)

Summaries are only useful when you provide **what you want extracted** and the **audience/purpose**.

```bash
node to-markdown.mjs <url-or-path> --summary --prompt "Summarize focusing on X, for audience Y. Extract Z."
```

Or:

```bash
node to-markdown.mjs <url-or-path> --summary --prompt "Focus on security implications and action items."
```

This will:
1) convert to Markdown via `uvx markitdown`
2) (optionally) write the Markdown to a temp file
3) run `pi --model claude-haiku-4-5` (no-tools, no-session) to summarize using your extra prompt

Commit message:

fix(summarize): write unique temp markdown and print hint

skills/summarize/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: summarize
description: "Fetch a URL or convert a local file (PDF/DOCX/HTML/etc.) into Markdown using `uvx markitdown`, optionally it can summarize"
---

Turn “things” (URLs, PDFs, Word docs, PowerPoints, HTML pages, text files, etc.) into **Markdown** so they can be inspected/quoted/processed like normal text.

`markitdown` can fetch URLs by itself; this skill mainly wraps it to make saving + summarizing convenient.

## When to use

Use this skill when you need to:
- pull down a web page as a document-like Markdown representation
- convert binary docs (PDF/DOCX/PPTX) into Markdown for analysis
- quickly produce a short summary of a long document before deeper work

## Quick usage

### Convert a URL or file to Markdown

Run from **this skill folder** (the agent should `cd` here first):

```bash
uvx markitdown <url-or-path>
```

To write Markdown to a temp file (prints the path) use the wrapper:

```bash
node to-markdown.mjs <url-or-path> --tmp
```

Tip: when summarizing, the script will **always** write the full converted Markdown to a temp `.md` file and will **always** print a final "Hint" line with the path (so you can open/inspect the full content).

Write Markdown to a specific file:

```bash
uvx markitdown <url-or-path> > /tmp/doc.md
```

### Convert + summarize with haiku-4-5 (pass context!)

Summaries are only useful when you provide **what you want extracted** and the **audience/purpose**.

```bash
node to-markdown.mjs <url-or-path> --summary --prompt "Summarize focusing on X, for audience Y. Extract Z."
```

Or:

```bash
node to-markdown.mjs <url-or-path> --summary --prompt "Focus on security implications and action items."
```

This will:
1) convert to Markdown via `uvx markitdown`
2) write the full Markdown to a temp `.md` file and print its path as a "Hint" line
3) run `pi --model claude-haiku-4-5` (no-tools, no-session) to summarize using your extra prompt
